there we go let's get started we're
broadcasting live on YouTube so if
you're watching there well done thanks
finding us we're called e to language
comm my name is J this lecture is on
IELTS speaking it's called towards IELTS
9 because I believe it's possible to get
I helped 9 or there abouts if you
understand how to do this test correctly
this part of the test I've done it I got
a nine and I think you can get close to
if not a nine yourself what you have to
think about is how this test is
constructed they describe it in IELTS as
the introduction and interview the long
turn and the discussion but this is
incorrect you should think about it like
small talk tell a great story and
discuss big ideas these are the three
sections of the test that you need to do
right so part one is small talk what's
going to happen is the IELTS examiner's
going to call your name you're going to
walk down a corridor probably going to a
classroom or some sort of room sit down
look at the examiner he or she is going
to look at your passport then ask you
some simple questions and you need to
small talk the only key to this one is
that you need to elaborate what does
that mean it means you need to extend
your answers don't give single word
answers to the examiner talk reply in
sentences interesting sentences for
example she might ask you where you're
from don't just say Australia say I'm
from a small town in the southern part
of Victoria in Australia something like
that use adjectives use interesting
words capture her attention right from
the beginning do you work or are you a
student you should answer by saying good
answer
such as yes I currently work for e to
language comm which is an online
platform that prepares people for IELTS
TOEFL IBT etc
in other words extend your answers then
what will happen is the examiner is
going to change the subject and ask you
some question that will sound strange
because it's not following a logical
progression she might ask you where's
your favorite tourism destination and
you need to think quickly in order to
answer her and so you will say well I
particularly like the 12 apostles on the
Great Ocean Road in the southern part of
Australia good not a one-word answer
give her multiple words longer answers
then she will say something like have
you been to any local tourist
attractions and you can say well yes
blah blah blah
again you understand it just be careful
about that change of topic there in part
two you need to tell a story okay this
is the most difficult part because it's
unnatural the examiner is going to give
you a task card and on that task card is
a topic you'll have one minute to
prepare then you have two minutes to
speak to do a monologue okay this is not
an interaction it's just you speaking to
the examiner in the one minute
preparation time you should just think I
don't think there's enough time to write
anything down you should just look at
your task card understand it think about
the story you're going to tell because
you need to tell a great story an
interesting story and to tell a great
story you need to embellish that means
that you may not be telling the truth
that the truth in IELTS speaking is
beside the point the purpose is to
express yourself articulately and use
interesting language to use interesting
language you may have to embellish which
is to add untrue details
right so this story you come up with can
be a real story but you can add
additional details that are actually not
true that's fine
you should also digress which means you
need to leave the main topic of the
conversation temporarily in other words
you may let me show you it's better to
visualize this through my task card this
is the task card that I got given on
test day and you can just go like this
you have one minute to prepare two
minutes to speak if you just speak
quickly and answer it without digressing
you'll finish in 30 seconds and that's
not good right what you need to do is
you need to digress you need to talk
about the task card but you need to go
off-topic and come back then go
off-topic then come back and go
off-topic and come back etc like that
this is how you speak for two minutes
on a topic digressing so my task card
said talk about a time you were recently
angry you should say who or what made
you angry where and when it was how
angry you were and explained whether or
not it was resolved and if so how so in
that one minute I sat there and I
thought right I've got a story it's a
boring story I'm going to have to add
some untrue details to make this story
interesting and to use interesting
language as a result right I'm going to
give you a chance to try here's a boring
task card you need to tell a great story
looking at this boring task card I want
you to describe a modern building you
should say where it is what it's used
for and why you like or dislike it and
talk about the last time you visited it
you don't need to talk directly about
this you can go off-topic that's fine
this task card is just there to guide
you but you should go through these dot
points nevertheless so I'm going to give
you one minute to prepare to think of a
great story
and two minutes to tell your great story
okay I'm going to time you
I'll tell you how long you have so your
time to prepare starts now
you
it's 30 seconds 30 seconds more to
prepare
remember you can digress
you should embellish and you must
elaborate for 2 minutes
just relax
ten seconds five four three two one and
start
it's 30 seconds minute and a half left
you
it's one minute one minute left
thirty seconds left
three two one and that's two minutes
cool how did you go I hope you spoke for
two minutes you should get up there to a
minute 45 at least at the two-minute
mark the examiner will stop you even if
you're midway through a sentence this is
not a bad thing they're not stopping you
because you're boring or they dislike
what you're saying they're stopping you
because you've reached two minutes and
you must stop okay then it will
transition into the third part but
before we transition I think I should do
an example of telling a great story as
great as I possibly can using this task
card okay and listen to the way that I
embellish a done tree details and
especially the way that I digress go
off-topic and then come back to topic so
my time starts now today I would like to
talk about a modern building located to
the south of Melbourne in a suburb
called South Bank which is a
particularly ugly suburb in Melbourne
I dislike modern buildings in general
I much prefer old architecture with the
beautiful engravings and facades as I
said this particular building is in
South Bank which is full of modern
apartment buildings which lack any
decorative features it's an apartment
building for residents so it's about
twenty four storeys high and it's full
of people who live there students people
who work in the city people who like to
be close to the city and perhaps they
live there because of its practical
purposes
I don't think I'd like to live in a
building that just serves practical
purposes because I enjoy nice aesthetics
for example I as I said I dislike it
because this particular building is
boring and plain and does not suit its
surrounding environment because
Melbourne is a beautiful city and there
are many beautiful places in Melbourne
but South Bank represents sort of
modernity and particularly boring
architecture the last time I visited
this building was about two weeks ago
and why I'm mentioning this particular
building is because my brother lives
there
my brother has very different tastes
than me and that's probably why he chose
to live in such a building he prefers
practicality over beauty so that's what
I'd like to speak about today is the
modern building in South Bank and the
reasons why I dislike it and I finished
it a minute and 55 seconds now what did
I do this is a difficult task card
because it's boring what am I going to
talk about well I went off topic because
the only way that I can stretch this out
to two minutes is to do this talk about
South Bank and how boring it is talk
about how beautiful Melbourne is talk
about my like how I like nice
architecture but I dislike that
architecture talk about the residents
and why they live there for practical
purposes I'm going off topic I'm coming
back to the topic I'm talking about the
theme that I'm just digressing cool cool
I hope that gives you an idea about how
to do this task you might also notice
that I used interesting language I used
word decorative I use the word aesthetic
I extended my vocabulary so I could show
the examiner that I understand these
words and I can use these words right
part three you need to discuss big ideas
okay it's now going to transition from
part two to part three very quickly
the examiner say now I'm going to ask
you some questions and the questions are
going to be complex you need to
elaborate again you need to extend your
answers you need to embellish you can
add untrue details your answers do not
need to be true they just need to show
your language skills importantly you
need to be thoughtful you need to give
interesting answers let me explain why
interesting ideas or abstract ideas will
get you a top score boring ideas basic
ideas will get you a low score why is
that it's because ideas language must
follow ideas the language must attend
the ideas so if you have boring ideas
you're going to use basic language if
you have interesting ideas you're going
to have to express them using
interesting language so to get to the
top of the pyramid to get to the IELTS
nine you have to have great ideas and
you have to have the language that can
come with those ideas to express it
alright
in short abstract ideas is abstract
language so what happened to me well
this was my task card about being angry
and the questions that the examiner
asked me were questions like how can you
control anger and I gave her interesting
thoughtful elaborate answers right I
drew upon my knowledge of whatever I'd
read in the last five years and I talked
her about that she asked me what do you
think about the mind-body relationship
and I talked to her about neuroscience
and I talked to her about this and that
and I gave her some great answers and as
such because our interesting answers are
used interesting language now what you
have to do is the discussion questions
will be related to your task card so
it's going to be about modern buildings
or architecture or something like that I
want you to speak for about 30 seconds
on each question I want you to answer
the question but I want you to be
interesting and thoughtful ok so
question 1 30 seconds
I'm going to change this I'm going to
ask you what do you think of modern
architecture starting now cool that's 30
seconds so you should have given an
extended interesting answer and maybe
drawn upon your what do you really think
about more on architecture maybe you
would compare modern architecture to old
architecture something like that but you
give an as interesting as possible
answer all right second question again
30 seconds elaborate and be interesting
would you rather live in a house or an
apartment alright that
thirty Seconds obviously you cannot
answer by just saying apartment or house
you need to enter why and give an
interesting reason why you might talk
about the size you might talk about
practicality you might talk about cost
something like that proximity to the
city need to use interesting vocabulary
and correct grammar last one thirty
seconds as the world's population
increases what do you think will happen
to housing now you need to think about
possibilities and future scenarios your
time starts now
you
cool that's 30 seconds so what would I
say here the world's population
increases what do you think it happened
to housing I'll say something like
obviously as the world's population
increases we can't spread outwards we'll
have to go upwards and that means that
we're going to have to live increasingly
in apartment buildings it also means
that apartment buildings are going to
have to become taller and taller this is
a good thing it will stop urban sprawl
and it will result in high apartment
buildings with better functionality
something like that
that's how I would have answered this
question cool right well done you've
just done an IELTS speaking let me talk
to you about the criteria or what the
examiner is listening for examiners
listening for five things fluency how
smoothly you speak not quickly fluency
does not mean you speak quickly
it means you speak without hesitating
without umming and ahhing without
restarting sentences without searching
for language to express yourself that's
what fluency means that words appear
instantaneously immediately in your mind
and you can express things structure
they listen for the way that you
structure your talk especially with part
two when you need to tell that great
story so your story should follow those
dot points and you should structure your
talk as such vocabulary they want to
hear sophisticated vocabulary that
expresses the things you're thinking
about okay not basic vocabulary and
remember that good ideas have good
vocabulary attached to them boring ideas
have boring vocabulary grammar you need
to fit the vocabulary into the correct
grammar and you need to pronounce
clearly you may need to speak slightly
slower than usual you need to sound
native like or at least be understood
easily by the examiner
cool well I've got to let me just tell
you how to prepare for IELTS if you're
struggling or if you've never taken it
or if you need help I strongly recommend
that you go to WWE to language comm why
because we offer the best online IELTS
course available it starts with a study
plan personalized study plan where you
meet with the teacher like me one-on-one
and we talk to you about your weaknesses
your strengths and what you need to do
to get to IELTS the IELTS score you need
on the website we have grammar
vocabulary and pronunciation practice to
build your basic skills we also have
methods tips and strategy classes for
all of the IELTS tasks and questions
including writing task 1 writing task 2
reading etc heaps of practice exercises
one-on-one tutorials with the teacher as
well as writing feedback and speaking
feedback and we do live mock tests like
this one here that's how you get to eye
on success so I might leave it there and
thank you very much for coming
you